Lots of additions :-) (#4)
CorantGmbH/aioairq: README.md

Reviewer: The workflow didn't work for me in all steps:
(1)
```bash
$ python3.9 -m venv .venv
Error: Command '['~/tmp/aioairq/.venv/bin/python3.9', '-Im', 'ensurepip', '--upgrade', '--default-pip']' returned non-zero exit status 1.
```
`$ python3 -m venv .venv` worked however.

(2)
```bash
$ . .env
.: datei oder Verzeichnis nicht gefunden: .env
```
`source .env` worked instead.

(3)
`$ pytest` didn't find *module named 'pytest_asyncio'*, even though it is installed. It worked, however, using `$ python3 -m pytest`

Author: Thanks, I am improving the README.

About (3): Are you sure you have activated the environment after doing (1)?
This sounds like you are using your system-wide Python.

I am hesitant to take your suggestion for (3), because the same should then apply to `pylint`, too.
Can you verify? With `which` you can check the correct file is called.
```
# WRONG
root@ed13c139adf4:/aioairq# which pytest
/usr/bin/pytest

# enable environment
root@ed13c139adf4:/aioairq# source .venv/bin/activate

# RIGHT
# It then takes the libs from .venv/, not from your system.
# ↓↓↓↓↓ <-- shows the environment is active
(.venv) root@ed13c139adf4:/aioairq# which pytest
/aioairq/.venv/bin/pytest
```

With what system did you try?
- On my Ubuntu 20.04.6, there is no `python3`, only `python3.9` (after I manually installed `python3.9`)
- On an Ubuntu 24.04, after installing `python3` there is `python3`, linking to `python3.11`.
  - Despite you marked the lib only 3.9 and 3.10, it works fine with 3.11.

Reviewer 2: Just a few quick notes.

@theHacker, is there a reason to explicitly prescribe python 3.9? Why not stick with simply `python3`, whichever the version? If you attempt to install this module (see the end of this comment) using a version < 3.9, the installation will error anyway.
To be clear, I am fine with supporting 3.9 but not prescribing it in the readme. (Incidentally, home assistant core, being the main use case for this library so far, [does not seem to support](https://github.com/home-assistant/architecture/blob/master/adr/0002-minimum-supported-python-version.md#decision) python 3.9 anymore anyway.)

> Despite you marked the lib only 3.9 and 3.10, it works fine with 3.11

Thanks for pointing it out, I simply forgot to add more versions to `pyproject.toml`. I am fairly positive it will work fine with 3.12 too, but right now all I can do is to assure that the tests in `test_core.py` pass on 3.12. Once I test with a device, I'll update `pyproject.toml` with both versions.

Without additional research, I would only quickly comment to @dl2080's `pytest` issue. I have occasionally experienced `pytest` binary called from an activated environment failing to reference the correct executable, while `python -m pytest` worked correctly. I have bothered to properly troubleshoot it yet thought.

BTW, `pytest` and `pytest-asyncio` are stated as [optional dependencies](https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/dependency_management.html#optional-dependencies) in [`pyproject.toml`](https://github.com/CorantGmbH/aioairq/blob/c3ea879e701c14fbf0eb10b072417e88a8fe4268/pyproject.toml#L27) and may be installed at once with the rest:
```sh
# having cloned the repo and `cd`ed into it, execute from the root of the repo:
pip install -e ".[tests]" 
```
I am sorry I did not mention it in the readme upright. I'd suggest an edit to the PR, but I have a question first.

Finally, @dl2080, if you feel like it, maybe you can check if the installation I mention above ensures that the correct `pytest` is invoked (maybe from a new virtual environment for the clarity of an experiment). (#worksonmymachine)

Reviewer: You are right - my fault on (3). I had the (conda) environment additionally active to (.venv). That was the problem. So forget (3). It is working! (1) and (2), however, still apply.
I have Ubuntu 23.10 installed and it ist running python 3.11.6, just for additional info.

Author: > is there a reason to explicitly prescribe python 3.9? Why not stick with simply python3, whichever the version?

The problem was the old version. I still have an Ubuntu 20 LTS running.
When I started coding, IIRC I did not even have `python3` at all. `python3` lead to "command not found".
After installing `python3`, I got the command `python3` but symlinked to `python3.8`.
Only after explicitly installing `python3.9` package I had the `python3.9` command. But `python3` still linked to `python3.8`. That's why I started the README with `python3.9`.

I changed the README to just `python3`, but left some notes for people with similar situations as I have it.

---

> `pip install -e ".[tests]" `

Thanks for that. I tried that, but could not get it to run, because of the versions problem.
I put it back into the README. It's the better solution (even though it does not work with me).

---

When trying out everything, I always did 

```sh
deactivate
rm -rfv .venv/
```
to every time start from scratch with my instructions.

asyncio.run(main())
```

## Development

Example script for Linux and Python 3.9 how to run everything.

```sh
# Checkout the repository
git clone https://github.com/CorantGmbH/aioairq
cd aioairq

# Create a virtual environment
python3.9 -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -e .

# You can now create a script (see example above) and run it
vim hello-air-q.py
python hello-air-q.py

# Optional: Testing

# Install optional dependencies for testing
#
# You find those in the pyproject.toml.
# Be sure to install those separately, otherwise you'll install

> # pytest 8.0.0 which pytest-asyncio does not like.

Reviewer 2: I am not sure I can reproduce this problem:
```
$ pip install pytest pytest-asyncio
Collecting pytest
  Using cached pytest-8.0.0-py3-none-any.whl.metadata (7.8 kB)
Collecting pytest-asyncio
  Using cached pytest_asyncio-0.23.4-py3-none-any.whl.metadata (3.9 kB)
Collecting iniconfig (from pytest)
  Using cached iniconfig-2.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (5.9 kB)
Collecting packaging (from pytest)
  Using cached packaging-23.2-py3-none-any.whl.metadata (3.2 kB)
Collecting pluggy<2.0,>=1.3.0 (from pytest)
  Using cached pluggy-1.4.0-py3-none-any.whl.metadata (4.3 kB)
Collecting pytest
  Using cached pytest-7.4.4-py3-none-any.whl.metadata (7.9 kB)
Using cached pytest_asyncio-0.23.4-py3-none-any.whl (17 kB)
Using cached pytest-7.4.4-py3-none-any.whl (325 kB)
Using cached pluggy-1.4.0-py3-none-any.whl (20 kB)
Using cached packaging-23.2-py3-none-any.whl (53 kB)
Installing collected packages: pluggy, packaging, iniconfig, pytest, pytest-asyncio
Successfully installed iniconfig-2.0.0 packaging-23.2 pluggy-1.4.0 pytest-7.4.4 pytest-asyncio-0.23.4
```
As I see it, pip attempts to install 8.0.0 at first, but then resolves the conflict following the requirements of `pytest-asyncio`. How did you get into a conflict?

Author: No idea, I just noticed when installing both together `pip` is too stupid to resolve it.
I get an error it's the wrong version, but it does not correct it:
```sh
$ pip install pytest pytest-asyncio
Collecting pytest
  Using cached pytest-8.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (334 kB)
Collecting pytest-asyncio
  Using cached pytest_asyncio-0.23.4-py3-none-any.whl (17 kB)
Collecting packaging
  Using cached packaging-23.2-py3-none-any.whl (53 kB)
Collecting tomli>=1.0.0; python_version < "3.11"
  Using cached tomli-2.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (12 kB)
Collecting pluggy<2.0,>=1.3.0
  Using cached pluggy-1.4.0-py3-none-any.whl (20 kB)
Collecting exceptiongroup>=1.0.0rc8; python_version < "3.11"
  Using cached exceptiongroup-1.2.0-py3-none-any.whl (16 kB)
Collecting iniconfig
  Using cached iniconfig-2.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (5.9 kB)
ERROR: pytest-asyncio 0.23.4 has requirement pytest<8,>=7.0.0, but you'll have pytest 8.0.0 which is incompatible.
Installing collected packages: packaging, tomli, pluggy, exceptiongroup, iniconfig, pytest, pytest-asyncio
Successfully installed exceptiongroup-1.2.0 iniconfig-2.0.0 packaging-23.2 pluggy-1.4.0 pytest-8.0.0 pytest-asyncio-0.23.4 tomli-2.0.1
```
ending up with 8.0.0, which does not work.

However, when doing it one by one, `pip` again downloades 8.0.0, but then downgrades to the required 7.x.

```sh
$ pip install pytest
Collecting pytest
  Using cached pytest-8.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (334 kB)
Collecting tomli>=1.0.0; python_version < "3.11"
  Using cached tomli-2.0.1-py3-none-any.whl (12 kB)
Collecting packaging
  Using cached packaging-23.2-py3-none-any.whl (53 kB)
Collecting pluggy<2.0,>=1.3.0
  Using cached pluggy-1.4.0-py3-none-any.whl (20 kB)
Collecting iniconfig
  Using cached iniconfig-2.0.0-py3-none-any.whl (5.9 kB)
Collecting exceptiongroup>=1.0.0rc8; python_version < "3.11"
  Using cached exceptiongroup-1.2.0-py3-none-any.whl (16 kB)
Installing collected packages: tomli, packaging, pluggy, iniconfig, exceptiongroup, pytest
Successfully installed exceptiongroup-1.2.0 iniconfig-2.0.0 packaging-23.2 pluggy-1.4.0 pytest-8.0.0 tomli-2.0.1

$ pip install pytest-asyncio
Collecting pytest-asyncio
  Using cached pytest_asyncio-0.23.4-py3-none-any.whl (17 kB)
Collecting pytest<8,>=7.0.0
  Using cached pytest-7.4.4-py3-none-any.whl (325 kB)
Requirement already satisfied: tomli>=1.0.0; python_version < "3.11" in ./.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (from pytest<8,>=7.0.0->pytest-asyncio) (2.0.1)
Requirement already satisfied: pluggy<2.0,>=0.12 in ./.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (from pytest<8,>=7.0.0->pytest-asyncio) (1.4.0)
Requirement already satisfied: iniconfig in ./.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (from pytest<8,>=7.0.0->pytest-asyncio) (2.0.0)
Requirement already satisfied: exceptiongroup>=1.0.0rc8; python_version < "3.11" in ./.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (from pytest<8,>=7.0.0->pytest-asyncio) (1.2.0)
Requirement already satisfied: packaging in ./.venv/lib/python3.9/site-packages (from pytest<8,>=7.0.0->pytest-asyncio) (23.2)
Installing collected packages: pytest, pytest-asyncio
  Attempting uninstall: pytest
    Found existing installation: pytest 8.0.0
    Uninstalling pytest-8.0.0:
      Successfully uninstalled pytest-8.0.0
Successfully installed pytest-7.4.4 pytest-asyncio-0.23.4
```
ending up with the 7.4.4

---

I rather have an additional info to help somebody, than having them guess how to solve :wink:

asyncio.run(main())
```

## Development

Example script for Linux how to run everything.

```sh
# Checkout the repository
git clone https://github.com/CorantGmbH/aioairq
cd aioairq

# Create a virtual environment

> # Hints:
> # - Ensure you have Python 3.9 or above.
> #   If "python3" does not work for you or points to an older "python3.8",
> #   you may need "python3.9" or similar instead to use the correct version.
> # - You might get an error message, if you haven't installed the python3-venv module.
> #   Follow the instructions of the message.

Reviewer 2: Sorry for bike-shedding. I find this a bit overly specific (in particular to the ubuntu release, which caused these hiccups in your workflow).

```suggestion
# Below we assume that your system has python of version 3.9 or higher installed and accessible via `python3`. 
# - If this command is not found or references an older version, consult your distribution.
# - Depending on the distribution, you may need to install an additional package, e.g. `python3-venv`.
```

python3 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate

# Install dependencies
pip install -e .

> # You can now create a script (see example above) and run it
> vim hello-air-q.py
> python hello-air-q.py

Reviewer 2: How about creating an `examples/` folder with a single (for now) example, e.g.  `query_airq_once.py`, containing the code you are referencing? I suppose at this point it may be a bit more helpful to provide the user with the sample script than to suggest they _paste a snippet in vim_ ;) 

```suggestion
# You can now edit the sample script to your liking, providing the appropriate credentials, 
# then run it using the interpreter from the activated environment
python examples/query_airq_once.py
# For a more convenient way of handling credentials, consider creating a `.env` file as described below.
```

Author: A good idea, but TBH I don't want to introduce that here.
The PR has 15 commits already.

I just incorporated the existing example into the new instructions.
For a good example there should already be a nice example of how to not write the credentials into the code. With the current example, there is still a manual step for the user to edit the file. That was my thinking about putting a `vim hello-air-q.py` line into the instructions. I think, for the now this should be sufficient to a user started :-)

# Optional: Testing

# Install optional dependencies for testing

> #
> # If you get an error message about incompatible version,
> # try to install the packages separately.
> # You find the packages in pyproject.toml.
> #
> # pip install pytest
> # pip install pytest-asyncio
> pip install -e ".[tests]" 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
pip install -e ".[tests]"

# If you get an error message about incompatible version,
# try to install the dependencies separately:
#
# pip install pytest
# pip install pytest-asyncio
```
